# admisssion-prediction-using-random-forest-regressor-RFR-
This dataset was built with the purpose of helping students in shortlisting universities with their profiles and it contains several parameters that are considered important during the application for master programs.The main goal of this project is to create a Machine Learning model which could be used by students who want to pursue their education in particular university. It is to develop a model based on previous years data of the students who got admits or rejects in a particular university. It helps students in shortlisting universities with their profiles .The dataset contained an independent variable to present the serial number of the requests.The output has only two possibilities either Yes (1) or No (0). First, we have to find the range of independent variables, the higher the value the more important it is. We’ll be using Cross Validation as an evaluation metric wherein we will split our dataset into Train and Test. Next, we decided to do some feature engineering to try to find out which variables contribute significantly to our models. Combining, adding, deleting, splitting, scaling features in order to increase the accuracy of the model is feature engineering. Next, we are going to apply the following Machine Learning algorithms on our Training data.We need to plot a confusion matrix.It has low MSE value and maximum R-squared.The predicted output gives them a far idea about their chances for a particular university. After analyzing the dataset, the RFR model remain the best model, there is a  relationship between the target and most independent variables and I made sure some of the assumptions of RFR were respected and the CGPA is the most important score to get admitted. For master program,most university requires students mostly international students to take some test like the GRE test which is a graduate entrance exam, the TOEFL test which is an english language skills and eventually the Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) to evaluate the student's competence. Having a good score in these tests enhance the chance of getting admitted. However, this dataset's target the chance of getting admitted is ranged from 0 to 1, and transforming the target data and removing some outliers provide an amazing improvement in the model performance.
Thank you!
